So let's work on that MealItem for now
which allows us to add items to the cart.
For this we already added the MealItemForm.js file here
in the MealItem folder, but of course it's empty right now.
We will also need some styling.
So again attach to find a MealItem.module.css file
so that we don't have to write the styles manually here.
Now in the MealItemForm.js file,
we of course wanna create
our MealItemForm component function,
and that this will receive some props here.
And we of course export this function here.
Now we can also already import the style classes
with import classes from MealItemForm.module.css
and then start with the JSX markup for this component.
Now here, I wanna render a form element
and in there we wanna have an input,
like this and we wanna have a button.
So therefore here, we can add both.
Now for this input, I will actually wrap that
into a separate component, so that we have a reusable input
which we could use in other parts of an application as well.
I'll do this as a second step though.
As a first step, let's finish the button.
For that I'll simply say Add on it
because that button will add it to the cart.
Maybe add a plus in front of Add as well.
And of course, add a class on the overall form
with class name and set this equal to classes.form,
like this.
Now we can go to the MealItem.js file
and import
that MealItemForm
component.
MealItemForm
from MealItemForm like this,
and output it here,
between the div.
Now, if we save this, we have something like this
which is not the final look but which is a start.
Now for the final look, as I said,
I wanna extract that input
into a reusable pre-styled input component
which could be used in multiple parts of the application.
Again, just as with the card
and a lot of these examples here,
not because this here would be a super huge application
but because these are realistic scenarios
in bigger applications you might be working on,
that you wanna have these
reusable pre-styled utility components like inputs,
or maybe all the buttons and so on,
which you use in a lot of different places
of your application.
And therefore in the UI folder
I will add a Input.js file
which will be responsible for rendering that input.
And therefore attached to all
to find the Input.module.css file
with styling for that input.
Now in there, I will, of course again
create my
component function as we did it multiple times already.
And of course we'll import these classes.
Import classes from Input.module.css.
And then here, we can return the markup for this input.
And in this case I wanna have a div here
with a class name of classes.input for the styling
and then there a label
with some text for the input and then the input itself.
Now you could definitely write this
in a lot of different ways.
Maybe even letting the user of this component decide
whether you want the input or a select or a text area here.
But to keep things simple here,
we'll just always render a input.
Now, of course the label text should be configurable
and therefore the text output here is props.label,
though of course, it's totally up to you
which prop name you're expecting this name on.
I will also set the htmlFor prop here
to set the for attribute, like class.
You don't set class or for
but in the case of class it's class name in JSX,
in the case of for, it's htmlFor
because both class and for are reserved keywords
in JavaScript.
And here, I will then point at props
and then input.id.
Again, this is my component
so I can decide which kind of prompts I expect
and which structure these props should have.
And I simply expect here that for this input component,
when it's getting used,
I get a label prop with the label text and input prop,
which then itself holds an object with configuration data
for the input, like for example, the id,
which we therefore then also add as the id prop here
on the input.
So props.input.id.
In addition, I will now use a nice little trick
to pass all other configuration data
I might've gotten for this input
to this input element here as props.
I add curly braces here, just like this,
and then use the spread operator to spread props.input.
This ensures that all the key value pairs
in this input object,
which we receive on props input are added as props to input.
So if input object here is an object
that for example has
type
text.
So if that is what we get on props input, for example,
then this code here would make sure
that type equals text is being added.
This is how that works
when you use the spread operator on an element like this.
It's simply a convenient way
of making this input highly configurable
from outside this component, through this input prop here.
And of course, therefore we can even get rid of this id
if we want to, and simply expect that this id
is part of this input prop as well,
which we already do expect here.
And then therefore also added automatically
through this syntax as a prop to this input element.
Now, and with that added, we can of course go back to the
MealItemForm component
and there import
Input from going up,
going up,
UI/input
and then replacing this input here
with input as a self-closing tag.
And there I will now add the label prop
because I'm expecting a label prop here
with some text inside of it,
with a label off amount.
And then the input prop,
which now itself should hold an object.
So here, the value is an object like this
hence the double curly braces, it's no special syntax.
Instead we have one pair of curly braces
to evaluate a JavaScript expression
which is passed in as a value.
And then that expression just happens
to be a JavaScript object.
Hence, we have that other pair of curly braces.
And in that object, I wanna have an id,
which is amount let's say,
type which is number
and this is one of the built-in input element types.
And I'll add some validation props as well
which are all props you can add
by default to the input element.
And that would be the min prop with one
and the max prop with five
to make sure that the amount that can be added
has to be at least one but is not bigger than five.
I'll add the step prop
which is also supported on the input element
and set this to one
and also provide a default value of one
so that this is the initial value
with which this input is populated.
And again, these are all default props
which you can add to any input element.
So these are not props
which we need to interpret and handle,
instead we just distribute them onto the input
through this syntax
and then they automatically start making sense
because these are all built-in props for input elements.
And if we now save that, this is what we got.
And that looks, of course, very, very nice.
Now with that, we built a lot of components
and we still got the cards components to build
but they're after.
We are finally ready to also start working on
the logic of this application and to add context,
to manage the card for example,
but of course building all these components
that is the meat of basically any React application
you are going to build.
And therefore I'm walking
through that process again with you
because you need to know how you can build components,
how you can use components.
That is super crucial and therefore an important practice.
And with that, let's build that card modal
and there after, let's finally wire everything up
and add more logic to this application.